.\" Copyright (c) 2006 Pierre-Yves Ritschard <pyr@openbsd.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Vincent Bernat <bernat@luffy.cx>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: July 16 2008 $
.Dt LLDPCTL 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm lldpctl
.Nd control LLDP daemon
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl d
.Op Fl a
.Op Fl L Ar location
.Op Fl P Ar policy
.Op Fl O Ar poe
.Op Fl o Ar poe
.Op Ar interface ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
program controls
.Xr lldpd 8
daemon.
.Pp
When no specific option is given,
.Nm
displays the list of discovered neighbors along with
some of their advertised capabilities. If some interfaces are given,
only those interfaces will be displayed.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl d
Enable more debugging information.
.It Fl a
Display all remote ports, including those hidden by the smart filter.
.It Fl f Ar format
Choose the output format. Currently
.Em plain ,
.Em xml
and
.Em keyvalue
formats are available. The default is
.Em plain.
.It Fl L Ar location
Enable the transmission of LLDP-MED location TLV for the given
interfaces. This option can be repeated several times to enable the
transmission of the location in several formats. Several formats are
accepted:
.Bl -tag -width "XX"
.It Em Coordinate based location
The format of
.Ar location
is
.Ar 1:48.85667:N:2.2014:E:117.47:m:1
The first digit is always
.Ar 1 .
It is followed by the latitude, a letter for the direction (
.Ar E
or
.Ar W
for East or West), the longitude and a letter for the direction (
.Ar N
or
.Ar S
). The next figure is the altitude. It can be expressed in meters (the
next letter is then
.Ar m
) or in floors (the letter should be
.Ar f
). The last digit is the datum. It can either be
.Ar 1
(WGS84),
.Ar 2
(NAD83) or
.Ar 3
(NAD83/MLLW).
.It Em Civic address
The location can be expressed as an address. The format of the
location is then
.Ar 2:FR:6:Commercial Rd:3:Roseville:19:4
The first digit is always
.Ar 2 .
The next two letters are the country code. Then, arguments are paired
to form the address. The first member of the pair is a digit
indicating the type of the second member. Here is the list of
valid types:
.Bl -tag -width "XXXX." -compact
.It Sy 0
Language
.It Sy 1
National subdivisions
.It Sy 2
County, parish, district
.It Sy 3
City, township
.It Sy 4
City division, borough, ward
.It Sy 5
Neighborhood, block
.It Sy 6
Street
.It Sy 16
Leading street direction
.It Sy 17
Trailing street suffix
.It Sy 18
Street suffix
.It Sy 19
House number
.It Sy 20
House number suffix
.It Sy 21
Landmark or vanity address
.It Sy 22
Additional location info
.It Sy 23
Name
.It Sy 24
Postal/ZIP code
.It Sy 25
Building
.It Sy 26
Unit
.It Sy 27
Floor
.It Sy 28
Room number
.It Sy 29
Place type
.It Sy 128
Script
.El
.It ECS ELIN
This is a numerical string using for setting up emergency call. The
format of the location is then the following:
.Ar 3:0000000911
where the first digit should be
.Ar 3
and the second argument is the ELIN number.
.El
.Pp
When setting a location for a given port, all previous locations are
erased. To erase all location, just use the empty string. There is
currently no way to get the location from the command line.
.Pp
.It Fl P Ar policy
Enable the transmission of LLDP-MED Network Policy TLVs for the given
interfaces. This option can be repeated several times to specify
different policies. Format (without spaces!):
.Pp
.Em App-Type
:
.Ar U
:
.Ar T
:
.Ar VLAN-ID
:
.Ar L2-Prio
:
.Ar DSCP
.Bl -tag -width "XX"
.It Ar App-Type
Valid application types (see ANSI/TIA-1057 table 12):
.Bl -tag -width "X." -compact
.It Sy 1
Voice
.It Sy 2
Voice Signaling
.It Sy 3
Guest Voice
.It Sy 4
Guest Voice Signaling
.It Sy 5
Softphone Voice
.It Sy 6
Video Conferencing
.It Sy 7
Streaming Video
.It Sy 8
Video Signaling
.El
.It Ar U
Unknown Policy Flag.
.Bl -tag -width "X." -compact
.It Sy 0
Network policy for the specified application type is defined.
.It Sy 1
Network policy for the specified application type is required by
the device but is currently unknown. This is used by Endpoint
Devices, not by Network Connectivity Devices.
.El
.It Ar T
Tagged Flag.
.Bl -tag -width "X." -compact
.It Sy 0
Untagged VLAN. In this case the VLAN ID and the Layer 2 Priority
are ignored and only the DSCP value has relevance.
.It Sy 1
Tagged VLAN.
.El
.It Ar VLAN-ID
IEEE 802.1q VLAN ID (VID). A value of 1 through 4094 defines a
VLAN ID. A value of 0 means that only the priority level is
significant.
.It Ar L2-Prio
IEEE 802.1d / IEEE 802.1p Layer 2 Priority, also known as Class of Service
(CoS), to be used for the specified application type.
.Bl -tag -width "X." -compact
.It Sy 1
Background
.It Sy 2
Spare
.It Sy 0
Best Effort (default)
.It Sy 3
Excellent Effort
.It Sy 4
Controlled Load
.It Sy 5
Video
.It Sy 6
Voice
.It Sy 7
Network Control
.El
.It Ar DSCP
DiffServ/Differentiated Services Code Point (DSCP) value as defined
in IETF RFC 2474 for the specified application type. Value: 0 (default
per RFC 2475) through 63. Note: The class selector DSCP values are
backwards compatible for devices that only support the old IP
precedence Type of Service (ToS) format. (See the RFCs for what
these values mean.)
.It Examples:
.Bl -tag -width "X." -compact
.It Sy 1:0:1:500:6:46
Voice (1): not unknown (0), tagged (1), VLAN-ID 500, l2 prio Voice (6), DSCP 46 (EF, Expedited Forwarding)
.It Sy 2:0:1:500:3:24
Voice Signaling (2): not unknown (0), tagged (1), VLAN-ID 500, l2 prio
Excellent Effort (3), DSCP 24 (CS3, Class Selector 3)
.El
.El
.Pp
.It Fl O Ar poe
Enable the transmission of LLDP-MED POE-MDI TLV for the given
interfaces. One can act as a PD (power consumer) or a PSE (power
provider). No check is done on the validity of the parameters while
LLDP-MED requires some restrictions:
.Bl -bullet
.It
PD shall never request more power than physical 802.3af class.
.It
PD shall never draw more than the maximum power advertised by PSE.
.It
PSE shall not reduce power allocated to PD when this power is in use.
.It
PSE may request reduced power using conservation mode
.It
Being PSE or PD is a global paremeter, not a per-port parameter.
.Nm
does not enforce this: a port can be set as PD or PSE. LLDP-MED also
requires for a PSE to only have one power source (primary or
backup). Again,
.Nm
does not enforce this. Each port can have its own power source. The
same applies for PD and power priority. LLDP-MED MIB does not allow
this kind of representation.
.El
.Pp
This option is distinct of
.Fl o
option. You may want to use both options at the same time.
.Pp
The format of this option is (without spaces):
.Pp
.Em type
:
.Ar source
:
.Ar priority
:
.Ar value
.Bl -tag -width "XX"
.It Ar type
Valid types are:
.Bl -tag -width "XXX." -compact
.It Sy PSE
Power Sourcing Entity (power provider)
.It Sy PD
Power Device (power consumer)
.El
.It Ar source
Valid sources are:
.Bl -tag -width "X." -compact
.It Sy 0
Unknown
.It Sy 1
For PD, the power source is the PSE. For PSE, the power source is the
primary power source.
.It Sy 2
For PD, the power source is a local source. For PSE, the power source
is the backup power source or a power conservation mode is asked (the
PSE may be running on UPS for example).
.It Sy 3
For PD, the power source is both the PSE and a local source. For PSE,
this value should not be used.
.El
.It Ar priority
Four priorities are available:
.Bl -tag -width "X." -compact
.It Sy 0
Unknown priority
.It Sy 1
Critical
.It Sy 2
High
.It Sy 3
Low
.El
.It Ar value
For PD, the power value is the total power in tenth of watts required
by a PD device from the PSE device. This value should range from 0 to
1023 tenth of watts.
.El
.It Fl o Ar poe
Enable the transmission of Dot3 POE-MDI TLV for the given
interfaces. One can act as a PD (power consumer) or a PSE (power
provider). This option is distinct of the
.Fl O
option. You might want to use both. Contrary to LLDP-MED POE-MDI TLV,
Dot3 POE-MDI TLV are strictly per-port values.
.Pp
The format of this option is (without spaces):
.Pp
.Em type
:
.Ar supported
:
.Ar enabled
:
.Ar paircontrol
:
.Ar powerpairs
:
.Ar class
[ :
.Ar powertype
:
.Ar source
:
.Ar priority
:
.Ar requested
:
.Ar allocated
]
.Bl -tag -width "XX"
.It Ar type
Valid types are:
.Bl -tag -width "XXX." -compact
.It Sy PSE
Power Sourcing Entity (power provider)
.It Sy PD
Power Device (power consumer)
.El
.It Ar powerpairs
Valid sources are:
.Bl -tag -width "X." -compact
.It Sy 1
The signal pairs only are in use.
.It Sy 2
The spare pairs only are in use.
.El
.It Ar class
Five classes are available:
.Bl -tag -width "X." -compact
.It Sy 1
class 0
.It Sy 2
class 1
.It Sy 3
class 2
.It Sy 4
class 3
.It Sy 5
class 4
.It Sy 0
no class
.El
.El
.Pp
.Ar supported ,
.Ar enabled
and
.Ar paircontrol
can be set to to 0 or 1.
.Ar supported
means that MDI power is supported on the given port.
.Ar enabled
means that MDI power is enabled on the given port.
.Ar paircontrol
is used to indicate if the pair selection can be controlled on the
given port.
.Pp
.Ar powertype ,
.Ar source ,
.Ar priority
(and remaining values) are optional. They are only requested in
conformance with 802.3at.
.Ar type
should be either 1 or 2. For the possible values of the next two
fields, see the possible values of
.Ar source
and
.Ar priority
for LLDP-MED MDI/POE.
.Ar requested
and
.Ar allocated
are respectively the PD requested power value and the PSE allocated
power value. This should be expressed in tenth of watts from 1 to 255.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "/var/run/lldpd.socketXX" -compact
.It /var/run/lldpd.socket
Unix-domain socket used for communication with
.Xr lldpd 8 .
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr lldpd 8
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
The
.Nm
program was written by
.An Vincent Bernat Aq bernat@luffy.cx .
