.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug.md, before:

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a bug report
labels: "bug"
---

This is an example of bug report. Try to adapt it to your case. When
putting code snippets (logs, commands), put them between triple backquotes:

```
# lldpcli -vv
[output of lldpcli -vv]
```

# Bug description

## Steps to reproduce the problem

 1. Compile `lldpd` with `./configure --localstatedir=/var --with-snmp && make`.

 2. Install with `sudo make install`.

 3. Run `lldpd`.
 
 4. Wait for a LLDPDU from the remote switch (vendor Pisco, release 19.1(478)KHT47.3).
 
## Expected outcome

`lldpd` should accept the LLDPDU and it should be available in the
output of `lldpcli show neighbors details`.

## Current outcome

After executing the above steps, `lldpd` crashed. Here is the end of
the output of `lldpd -ddddd` before the crash:

```
2016-11-10T11:06:40 [ DBG/lldp] receive LLDP PDU on eno1
2016-11-10T11:06:40 [ DBG/alloc] allocate a new management address (family: 1)
2016-11-10T11:06:40 [ DBG/decode] search for the same MSAP
2016-11-10T11:06:40 [ DBG/decode] MSAP is unknown, search for the chassis
2016-11-10T11:06:40 [ DBG/decode] unknown chassis, add it to the list
```

# Additional information

 - Output of `lldpd -vv`:
 
```
lldpd x.y.z
  Built on ...
  
Additional LLDP features: ...
Additional protocols: ...
```

 - Output of `ps -fp $(pgrep -d, -x lldpd)`:
 
```
UID        PID  PPID  C STIME TTY          TIME CMD
root      2265     1  0 nov.05 ?       00:00:00 lldpd: monitor.
_lldpd    2285  2265  0 nov.05 ?       00:00:00 lldpd: connected to gs108t.
```

 - Output of `uname -sro`:
 
```
Linux 4.8.0-1-amd64 GNU/Linux
```

 - Output of `tcpdump -pni eth0 -vv -X ether host 01:80:c2:00:00:0e`:
 
```
16:47:37.595387 LLDP, length 219
        Chassis ID TLV (1), length 7
          Subtype MAC address (4): 54:ee:75:0f:31:7e
          0x0000:  0454 ee75 0f31 7e
[...]
        0x00b0:  1600 080f 656e 7830 3035 3062 3636 6563  ....enx0050b66ec
        0x00c0:  6236 65fe 0900 120f 0301 0000 0000 fe09  b6e.............
        0x00d0:  0012 0f01 03ec c100 1e00 00              ...........
```

Commit message:

github: emphasize more that the issue tracker is not a support forum

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug.md, after:

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a bug report
labels: "bug"
---

This is an example of bug report. Read it to the bottom and Try to
adapt it to your case. Please, do not use this template for
configuration problems, getting help on how to compile, cross-compile
on some platforms. Keep in mind that *lldpd* has been deployed
successfully on hundred of thousands of devices and therefore it is
unlikely it just does not work. Instead, use the
[discussions](https://github.com/lldpd/lldpd/discussions) for support
questions.

When putting code snippets (logs, commands), put them between triple
backquotes:

```
# lldpcli -vv
[output of lldpcli -vv]
```

# Bug description

## Steps to reproduce the problem

 1. Compile `lldpd` with `./configure --localstatedir=/var --with-snmp && make`.

 2. Install with `sudo make install`.

 3. Run `lldpd`.

 4. Wait for a LLDPDU from the remote switch (vendor Pisco, release 19.1(478)KHT47.3).

## Expected outcome

`lldpd` should accept the LLDPDU and it should be available in the
output of `lldpcli show neighbors details`.

## Current outcome

After executing the above steps, `lldpd` crashed. Here is the end of
the output of `lldpd -ddddd` before the crash:

```
2016-11-10T11:06:40 [ DBG/lldp] receive LLDP PDU on eno1
2016-11-10T11:06:40 [ DBG/alloc] allocate a new management address (family: 1)
2016-11-10T11:06:40 [ DBG/decode] search for the same MSAP
2016-11-10T11:06:40 [ DBG/decode] MSAP is unknown, search for the chassis
2016-11-10T11:06:40 [ DBG/decode] unknown chassis, add it to the list
```

# Additional information

 - Output of `lldpd -vv`:

```
lldpd x.y.z
  Built on ...

Additional LLDP features: ...
Additional protocols: ...
```

 - Output of `ps -fp $(pgrep -d, -x lldpd)`:

```
UID        PID  PPID  C STIME TTY          TIME CMD
root      2265     1  0 nov.05 ?       00:00:00 lldpd: monitor.
_lldpd    2285  2265  0 nov.05 ?       00:00:00 lldpd: connected to gs108t.
```

 - Output of `uname -sro`:

```
Linux 4.8.0-1-amd64 GNU/Linux
```

 - Output of `tcpdump -pni eth0 -vv -X ether host 01:80:c2:00:00:0e`:

```
16:47:37.595387 LLDP, length 219
        Chassis ID TLV (1), length 7
          Subtype MAC address (4): 54:ee:75:0f:31:7e
          0x0000:  0454 ee75 0f31 7e
[...]
        0x00b0:  1600 080f 656e 7830 3035 3062 3636 6563  ....enx0050b66ec
        0x00c0:  6236 65fe 0900 120f 0301 0000 0000 fe09  b6e.............
        0x00d0:  0012 0f01 03ec c100 1e00 00              ...........
```
